WEDNESDAY PUZZLE — You are feeling sleepy … you might be able to solve this deceptively simple crossword, but our constructors, Peter A. Collins and Bruce Haight, have pulled some hocus-pocus so that you might not see the entirety of the theme until you are finished.And even then. But don’t feel bad if you didn’t see it. I know I had to look back at the grid to catch it. That’s all part of their flimflam.Our constructors offer us a disparate list of theme items — TOOTH EXTRACTION, MATH EXAM and CORN CHEX — that are all appearing in The New York Times crossword for the first time. That’s nice, but it is not the theme.It’s also tough to recognize that these are, in fact, the theme entries, because they are not really symmetrical with each other in the typical sense. The honor of being symmetrical with the first theme entry, TOOTH EXTRACTION, goes to the revealer. CORN CHEX is stuffed into the southeast, but it’s not there for no reason.It turns out that the revealer is the 1956 Screamin’ Jay Hawkins song “I PUT A SPELL ON YOU,” and we are doing pretty much just that today.Don’t see it? Let’s take a closer look.Each theme entry contains the word HEX, a synonym for a spell. Mr. Collins and Mr. Haight figured out how to put the word HEX directly on top of the word YOU in three places in their grid. For example, take a look at TOOTH EXTRACTION at 16A. The letters HEX in that entry are directly above the YOU in EMPTY OUT at 19A. So they’ve put a HEX on YOU.See? Flimflam.13A: Fun wordplay here. “Ones making a case for drinking?” sounds a lot like my friends, but today we are supposed to be thinking of things that make up a case of beverages, and the answer is SODAS.23A: I wanted this answer to be VON TRAPP, although the clue reads “___ Family Singers (group that inspired ‘The Sound of Music’).”32A: I saw this after solving the crossings. SIRI is “One who talks on the phone a lot?” especially if you have an iPhone.38D: I like any chance to welcome a candy to The New York Times crossword, and today it is the ASTROPOP’s turn. These multicolored lollipops should be familiar to most, but if you are in the mood for something a bit more adult, the company has provided drink recipes for fans.59D: NON-U is a Britishism that means not like the upper classes.Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?