LONDON — William Forsythe’s new “Playlist (Track 1, 2)” for English National Ballet is a blast. Just 10 minutes long, it had the audience whooping during the performance and on its feet by the time the curtain came down. On its opening two nights, Thursday and Friday, viewers were rewarded with an encore in which Mr. Forsythe, a sprightly 68, came onstage for a brief, carefree boogie.It was a coup for Tamara Rojo, artistic director of English National Ballet, to secure this commission, Mr. Forsythe’s first creation for a British company in more than 20 years. It was presented on a program, “Voices of America” (through April 21), with works by Jerome Robbins and Aszure Barton, and another recent piece by Mr. Forsythe.Mr. Forsythe built his reputation by breaking the mold of classical ballet while remaining embedded in its tradition. When he began choreographing in the 1980s, he was vilified as much as praised for his exactingly physical and often highly intellectualized experiments. But Mr. Forsythe was soon in demand from ballet companies around the world, eager for a revitalizing shot of innovation. After a period in which he worked on a smaller scale and in a contemporary dance idiom, he has recently returned to the classical style that he considers his home ground.But he remains a mold breaker. “Playlist” looks as if Mr. Forsythe had asked himself what was the one most powerful force in dance today, and answered: hip-hop. Wisely, he does not imitate it, but lets its spirit infuse the choreography. In the opening scene — or “track” — the 12 dancers in the all-male cast are put through their classical paces, first in a series of formal poses, then in flashy sequences of beaten jumps and turning circles. If the look is balletic, the formations are not far from music video: tight, synchronized and quick cut.The hip-hop feel, meanwhile, comes from the soundtrack, Peven Everett’s mellow “Surely Shorty.” An infectious R&B number — each verse a rising groove that drops back to base before starting up again — it imparts bounce to the balletic positions and squeezes some soul from the steps. The dancers wear electric blue tights and pink T-shirts emblazoned with their names, as if each were his own cheerleader.“Track 2” goes for a bigger swagger. Set to Jax Jones’ housey remix of Lion Babe’s “Impossible,” the staging takes its cue from a hip-hop battle. Punchier if less sophisticated than “Track 1,” the dancing sometimes tips toward pastiche (some of the homeboy hand gesturing doesn’t feel real), yet the mix of hip-hop’s “get down” vibe with ballet’s aerial uplift keeps the work bracingly fresh.“Playlist (Track 1, 2)” is not a masterpiece, but it is a masterly showstopper. And who knows what it will lead to? The title and format suggest that Mr. Forsythe could easily extend it beyond a couple of tracks into something more like an album. Or perhaps its tracks could be split up and distributed as “singles,” shuffled into the playlist of any number of mixed ballet programs around the world.The program was an excellent showcase for the company as a whole. Before “Playlist” came three other works with their own takes on classical tradition. Mr. Forsythe’s “Approximate Sonata 2016,” a reworking of his 1996 original, is a series of four knotty duets in his signature early style: detailed tinkerings with the mechanisms of ballet technique; an erratic score of blips and blasts; a dark, spare stage; and pointed subversions of theater convention, with curtains rising and falling randomly, false starts, stops and retakes. That may make it sound overburdened, but its predominant qualities are clarity and tension: the dancing is pin sharp, while the phrasing is entirely unpredictable.It’s a complicated piece, but easier to relate to than Mr. Robbins’s archly stylized “The Cage” (1951) with its tribe of spider-women who kill their male victims by strangling them with their thighs. Ms. Barton’s 2016 “Fantastic Beings” suited the company better. Inspired by Mason Bates’s teeming score, she envisions the dancers as a menagerie of marvelous creatures. The choreography may be overstretched, but its texture of movement is consistently gorgeous.