9 P.M. (HBO) PHIL SPECTOR (2013) A wigged-out Al Pacino reunites with the writer and director David Mamet (“Glengarry Glen Ross”) to portray the music producer and songwriter charged with the 2003 shooting death of Lana Clarkson inside his home in Alhambra, Calif. Helen Mirren, right with Mr. Pacino, plays the lawyer Linda Kenney Baden, who represented Mr. Spector alongside Bruce Cutler (Jeffrey Tambor) at his first trial, in 2007, which resulted in a hung jury. (He was convicted in 2009 and is serving 19 years to life.) The movie has already set off controversy: Mr. Spector’s wife, Rachelle, has complained about the film’s depiction of her husband as “a foul-mouthed megalomaniac.” Edward Lozzi, a former publicist for Ms. Clarkson, has taken exception to the film’s focus on the defense’s argument that she killed herself. The film is a work of fiction, Mr. Mamet said in an HBO interview, spun from his fascination with Mr. Spector’s character “and the mythological possibilities.” “The focus on the tender and respectful bond between lawyer and client looks a lot like a revisionist re-enactment and maybe even absolution,” Alessandra Stanley wrote in The New York Times. “Everyone has a right to the best available defense, but not everyone deserves to be played by the best available actor.”10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Jim Messina, the chairman of Organizing for Action, which seeks to mobilize support in favor of President Obama’s legislative priorities, and Karl Rove, a founder of the Republican “super PAC” American Crossroads, face off over guns, immigration and gay marriage.10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, addresses his 13-hour filibuster of the nomination of John Brennan as the director of the Central Intelligence Agency; winning the presidential straw poll at the Conservative Political Action Conference; immigration reform; and his future plans.10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Brendon Ayanbadejo, a linebacker for the Baltimore Ravens and an advocate of same-sex marriage; Austin Nimocks, senior counsel with the Alliance Defending Freedom; Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council; Evan Wolfson, the founder and president of Freedom to Marry; and David Frum, a writer for The Daily Beast, discuss the Supreme Court hearing on California’s Proposition 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act.10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Mayor Michael Bloomberg; Wayne LaPierre, chief executive of the National Rifle Association; and David Boies, the lawyer challenging Proposition 8, discuss gun control and gay marriage.7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES Lesley Stahl speaks with a member of Pussy Riot, the Russian punk protest band, who calls herself Kot to protect her identity, about the imprisonment of two of her band mates after their anti-Putin performance in a Moscow cathedral last year. James Brown interviews the linebacker Brian Banks about his football dreams after his five-year imprisonment and subsequent exoneration for rape. And Anderson Cooper swims with Nile crocodiles.8 P.M. (13, 49) KRISTIN CHENOWETH: THE DAMES OF BROADWAY ... ALL OF ‘EM! Ms. Chenoweth, below, salutes the great musical-theater roles for leading ladies and their sidekicks in this “American Songbook” show, presented here by “Live From Lincoln Center.” The songlist includes “Somebody, Somewhere” from “The Most Happy Fella,” by Frank Loesser; “(When I Marry) Mister Snow” from “Carousel,” by Rodgers and Hammerstein; and “My Funny Valentine” from “Babes in Arms,” by Rodgers and Hart. Audra McDonald hosts.9 P.M. (Bravo) MARRIED TO MEDICINE Six Atlanta women — two doctors and four doctors’ wives — juggle family, careers and social calendars in this new reality series. “A confederation of mostly black women,” Mike Hale wrote in The Times, “enacts scenes of petty jealousy and scorched-earth class warfare that reinforce every pernicious cliché about female treachery and the shallowness of buppie culture and that are also, as it happens, reliably entertaining.”9 P.M. (13) THE SONG OF LUNCH In this bittersweet dramatization of Christopher Reid’s poem of the same title, Emma Thompson and Alan Rickman portray former lovers — he is a copy editor and failed poet in London; she was his muse, now married to a successful novelist and living in Paris — meeting for lunch at their favorite trattoria. The menu for this “Masterpiece Contemporary” presentation features sex, temptation, guilt, revenge and not a little Chianti. KATHRYN SHATTUCK