Now more than ever, the easiest answer to that pesky question — what’s keeping jazz vital these days? — appears to lie in London. And much of the serious activity there runs through Shabaka Hutchings. The 33-year-old tenor saxophonist anchors a handful of his own bands and served as the musical director for “We Out Here,” a Brownswood Recordings compilation with tracks from nine British groups, like a book of hours for the thriving young scene.In January Mr. Hutchings announced that he had signed with Impulse!, an imprint of Universal, and that the label would be releasing music from his various ensembles. The first to arrive is “Your Queen Is a Reptile,” the third album by his quartet, Sons of Kemet, and it’s an excellent place to start.This band has a rare instrumentation — tenor saxophone, tuba, two drummers — and a relentless, jouncing sound anchored in rhythms of the Caribbean. His two other major projects are Shabaka and the Ancestors, a collaboration with young South African musicians that has a forbearing, serious mission, and the Comet Is Coming, an astro-futurist trio influenced by electronic dance music. Sons of Kemet’s sound falls somewhere right between those two: It’s acoustic music, but adamant and dance-driven.The new album’s title takes a shot at the British monarchy, a system that, Mr. Hutchings says, reaffirms the notion that one’s birthright is enough to define class and status. He wrote each of the album’s nine tunes for an alternate matriarch from the African diaspora. Their titles all have the same construction: “My Queen Is Harriet Tubman;” “My Queen Is Yaa Asantewaa,” for an early-20th-century Ashanti ruler; “My Queen Is Ada Eastman,” for Mr. Hutchings’s Barbadian great-grandmother; and so on. On some tunes the band is joined by an M.C. or a poet, spinning verses of defiance and affirmation.Sons of Kemet’s music reaches vastly across the diaspora, though it has increasingly gravitated toward the Antilles. The band’s 2013 debut, “Burn,” was a restive, rangy album, stretching from slow deliquescence to scorching surrealism. Its sophomore release, “Lest We Forget What We Came Here to Do,” pulled toward calypso and soca, toward the earth, toward a more direct energy, thanks to Mr. Hutchings’s growing embrace of his own upbringing — he moved to Barbados at 6 and returned to London in high school — and to the impact of Theon Cross, a prodigious young talent who took over on tuba just before “Lest We Forget” was recorded. His playing centers on heavy oscillations between the strong and weak beats, and never lets up on a groove.On “Your Queen Is a Reptile,” the interplay between Mr. Hutchings and Mr. Cross immediately calls you to attention, but as songs progress your focus drifts to the twin drummers — Tom Skinner and Seb Rochford — as they start to shift the flow from beneath. (Mr. Rochford left the group soon after recording this album, and was replaced by Eddie Hick.) It happens on “My Queen Is Ada Eastman,” the opening track: Mr. Hutchings finishes the song’s melody and Mr. Cross hops up an octave to join him in unison for a brief coda. Your ear catches a spark between the drummers, and you realize they’ve been sparring all along, their patterns making a big shared gesture, a half-circle, a contested zone.When things really get moving, as on the hotfooted “My Queen Is Harriet Tubman” or the steady climb of “My Queen Is Yaa Asantewaa,” Mr. Hutchings is liable to throw in his lot with the drummers, tonguing his reed to make a percussive, flaring effect that’s a bit like a rimshot on a hand drum, or the air-horn effect of a West Indian D.J.This is one of many personal gestures Mr. Hutchings uses that don’t have a lot to do with the broader lexicon of the jazz saxophone. His inflections are different from those of an American saxophonist steeped in the blues, and he almost never bends his tones into blue notes — a staple of American music that grew out of Southern field hollers, but didn’t take hold in the Caribbean or in London.So while Mr. Hutchings’s saxophone sound passes through the American masters (he manages a smart balance of Sonny Rollins’s full-sail linear improvising and John Coltrane’s billowy grandeur, a rare achievement) his playing and composing also reflect British influences: You can hear the latent kinetics of Tom Challenger, a British saxophonist a few years Mr. Hutchings’s senior, and the thumping tunes that Courtney Pine wrote for the Jazz Warriors in the 1980s.This underlines one key to Mr. Hutchings’s appeal. In order to get a new generation invested, it’s not enough to play the horn a little differently than before. You’ve got to reshuffle the deck, renew the context entirely. As Mr. Hutchings spreads his wings, he is presenting an opportunity for listeners to fall in love with a sound that’s got the timeless assets of jazz — rebellion, collectivity, emotive abstraction — but doesn’t feel weighed down by its own past.