Welcome to “The Month in Live Jazz,” a column highlighting five standout performances from the past month on stages across New York City.MILES OKAZAKI Jazz Gallery, March 16The guitarist Miles Okazaki paused midway through the late set at the Jazz Gallery to offer a note of gratitude. The material he was playing — all from “Trickster,” his standout 2017 album — had first taken shape at this space two years earlier. Throughout his performance, the music made it clear that the room continues to be a fertile ground for Mr. Okazaki and his partners.He was joined by the rhythm section from “Trickster” — Anthony Tidd on bass and Sean Rickman on drums — as well as Matt Mitchell on piano. All four musicians have come through the tutelage of the alto saxophonist and rhythmic experimentalist Steve Coleman, and Mr. Okazaki’s tunes offer their own inquiries into and around Mr. Coleman’s strategies. Slippery cadences blend funk with ideas from around the globe; flashes of conspicuous historical memory meet a tenacious futurism.Mr. Okazaki’s set featured five tunes from the album. He began many of them with halting, staccato phrases on the guitar’s bottom three strings, engaging Mr. Tidd in a bubbling repartee before the entire band was eventually pulled into the tangled flow. Mr. Okazaki rarely plays chords; his linear style has a fleetness reminiscent of Pat Martino and a rough, chunky picking style not unlike that of Grant Green. But over the unflexed, tumbling grooves of his rhythm section, such as in the set-closing “Caduceus,” his playing felt like something utterly contemporary, free from the expectations of what it means to play a guitar in a group setting — not just in jazz, but any kind.Miles Okazaki’s latest album, “Trickster,” was released last year on Pi Recordings.RAVI COLTRANE TRIO WITH TOMOKI SANDERS Jazz Standard, March 28The saxophonist Ravi Coltrane has spent much of his career standing apart from the heavy legacy of his father, John Coltrane, who died when he was not yet 2 years old. Of late, the younger Mr. Coltrane has turned much of his attention toward his mother, the pianist and harpist Alice Coltrane, whose influence is less ubiquitous in jazz.But at Jazz Standard on Wednesday, there was no way to avoid thinking about paternal inheritance. Performing with a trio, Mr. Coltrane welcomed a special guest, Tomoki Sanders, a fellow tenor saxophonist and the son of Pharoah Sanders, who performed with John Coltrane in his final years and carried the spiritual-jazz mantle after Coltrane’s 1967 death. Clearly, the risk of a disappointing gimmick would seem to be running high. But Mr. Coltrane is allergic to glib gestures, and it quickly became clear that Tomoki Sanders was there for the right reasons.At 23, Mr. Sanders cannot even be called a new face on the New York scene yet: He spent his teenage years living in Tokyo and is currently finishing his degree at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. But you’ll be hearing from him soon. There are few saxophonists in jazz today as silvery and deft as Ravi Coltrane, who blew a handful of melted-ore solos throughout the evening, bending in all sorts of directions without slurring the notes themselves. But Mr. Sanders kept up with him handsomely. He played some keen, beboppish solos of his own, always keeping track of the pocket and never losing his command.Unsurprisingly, Mr. Coltrane had the snugger rapport with his rhythm section — Dezron Douglas on bass and Allan Mednard on drums — but Mr. Sanders was keyed in and constantly listening. On the opening of “Fifth House,” just seconds into the performance, he and Mr. Coltrane came together to play a drone, melding comfortably. When the tune neared its end, the two saxophonists threw out little, charmlike notes and dashes. Mr. Sanders was quick and light of touch, finding the spaces between Mr. Coltrane’s tones. Ultimately the two horns became locked in an unlikely harmony, just one note apart, embracing the fertile space between them.Mr. Coltrane’s trio plays at Jazz Standard through Sunday, without Mr. Sanders.OMER AVITAL AND QANTAR Bar Lunático, March 12The bassist Omer Avital makes big-boned, ebullient, swinging music with a spine that’s equal parts 1950s Blue Note records and timeless Middle Eastern modes. He manages to play small-group jazz in a way that’s bracing and direct enough to sound fresh and engaging, but has no interest in self-conscious postmodernity. His combinations feel naturally unified, not like a synthesis. Just as important, he puts joy and abandon out front; his authorship is affirmed moment to moment over the course of a performance, rather than through the building of a conceptual identity.Mr. Avital’s past albums (almost all of them winners) have had names like “Think With Your Heart” and “The Ancient Art of Giving,” and that spirit is contagious. Onstage at Bar Lunático in Brooklyn, performing with a new quartet called Qantar, a smile tended to reign over his entire face as he pushed his band mates into a variety of propulsive patterns. He was born in Israel to parents of Moroccan and Yemeni descent, and his songwriting often balances desert languor with cosmopolitan urgency.On “Just Like the River Flows,” he started with a dark bass solo, then moved into a sauntering, minor-key shimmy. A few songs later, on the dashing “Know What I Mean,” the tenor saxophonist Asaf Yuria took a swift, skittering solo; then the pianist Eden Ladin took over, cooling and remolding things by way of unexpected harmonic interjections, never letting up on the fast tempo. By the time Mr. Ladin crescendoed, he was moving on many levels at once, free of friction but in touch with a vast history.Omer Avital’s new album, “Qantar,” will come out on April 15.DIVA JAZZ ORCHESTRA Dizzy’s Club Coca-Cola, March 29Ingrid Jensen is now one of jazz’s most reputed trumpeters, but a quarter century ago she was a young musician just getting her bearings in the newly formed DIVA Jazz Orchestra. That group’s leader, the drummer Sherrie Maricle, has kept it together over the years by holding on to some longtime members while welcoming a steady stream of young talents when those like Ms. Jensen move on to other things.As female instrumentalists have increasingly claimed space in jazz’s male-centric spotlight, DIVA has served as a proving ground for some of the music’s rising voices.Ms. Jensen is a testament to that. She has a distinctive, hazel-hued tone and a restless improviser’s style, in contact with the influence of Freddie Hubbard but less inclined to clean landings. On Thursday, in the first set of DIVA’s four-night run at Dizzy’s, she joined the orchestra as a special guest. (This weekend’s shows are a celebration of the group’s 25th anniversary, and the release of its new album.)There are few jazz orchestras with a tighter machinery or a more sweeping repertory of original music. The set began with “East Coast Andy,” a shuffling composition by the baritone saxophonist Leigh Pilzer, with a Count Basie bone structure and a Bob Brookmeyer musculature. That was followed by “Middle Ground,” a folklike lament by the tenor saxophonist and clarinetist Janelle Reichman, and a medley of tunes by Noriko Ueda, the bassist. The set closed with “The Rhythm Changes,” a blues extension written by Ms. Maricle, with the trombones, trumpets and saxophones unified in a full-throated declaration.The DIVA Jazz Orchestra plays at Dizzy’s through Sunday.JONATHAN FINLAYSON SEXTET The Stone, March 3Jonathan Finlayson stood onstage at the Stone’s new home in a theater at the New School, almost ready to start his set. His body was angled halfway toward his band mates, his trumpet held at his side. He muttered a few words to his rhythm section, the bassist John Hébert and the drummer Craig Weinrib, and hesitated.A little voice shot up from the back row: “I’m waiting!” It was Mr. Hébert’s toddler son, who in all fairness had been exercising extreme patience for about 30 whole seconds. Mr. Finlayson smiled, put the horn to his lips, and got going with the set’s first song, “Tap Tap.” But that didn’t solve the problem entirely. Mr. Finlayson’s music is all about waiting: for pieces to fit into place, for a melody to gain lift, for the ship to dock. That’s by design, and it creates a constant feed of generative precarity.Mr. Finlayson was introducing a new sextet, which headed into the studio soon after this show to record an album. On “Tap Tap,” he and the pianist Matt Mitchell gave chase to the chord changes, baiting them and tackling them, while the tenor saxophonist Brian Settles played fewer notes, seeming to live inside the harmonies as they moved. Steve Lehman, on alto saxophone, was a picture of total command — rhythmically goading the rest of the band and pulling the drummer Craig Weinrib into a bodily exchange.The combination of openness and complexity in this music spells a certain kind of possibility: Mr. Mitchell took a solo that was almost entirely eighth notes, with nearly no rests, and still seemed to create rhythmic suspense at every turn.Jonathan Finlayson’s most recent album, “Moving Still,” was a New York Times best album of 2016. 