A video posted on Instagram Sunday night recorded some of their final moments: Young faces, glowing in the pink light of dusk, smiling wide as their sightseeing helicopter lifted off the ground.“In the air!” one of the passengers, Trevor Cadigan, appears to shout over the sound of whirling blades.Only a few minutes later, the chopper descended into the frigid and fast-moving waters of the East River. The pilot, Richard Vance, 33, cried “engine failure” in a mayday call and turned the helicopter away from the busy streets of Manhattan. Of the six people on that flight, Mr. Vance was the only one who survived.Among the dead, the oldest was just 34.Mr. Cadigan, 26, was aboard with Brian McDaniel, also 26, a friend from their high school days in Dallas. Carla Vallejos Blanco, 29, of Corrientes, Argentina, was visiting New York with a friend, a woman who decided to skip the flight. Two other men were killed: Tristan Hill, 29; and Daniel Thompson, 34, whom a law enforcement official described as an employee of the helicopter tour company that operated the craft.Mr. Hill was engaged to be married, according to his younger brother, Brendan. The date was less than two months away.“He always inspired me to be better,” Brendan Hill said. “I was getting ready to write a speech for the wedding, not the eulogy for his funeral.”Tristan Hill was one of three brothers raised in Reno, Nev. He played basketball at Missouri Valley College, and he stayed involved with the sport after graduation. He coached with the Boys and Girls Club of America and organized a charity basketball camp for children in Reno, a fund-raiser for the Boys and Girls Club.Brendan Hill said he was always jealous of his brother’s drive, and Mr. Hill’s short career showed a young man with wide interests and varied talents. He worked at the Sierra Nevada Corporation for a time, and briefly co-owned a bar in Reno called the Stamp Social Club, which was in the basement of an old 1930s post office. He even interned on Capitol Hill for Representative Michael R. Turner, a Republican from Ohio.In a statement on Monday, Mr. Turner said: “Tristan’s personality, intellect, and constant smile were always on display when he worked with us. I was deeply saddened to learn of his passing and my prayers go out to his family. The joy and happiness that he brought to all of us will not be forgotten.”But it was Mr. Hill’s latest venture, his younger brother said, that brought him into the tourist helicopter. He moved to New York a few months ago to work on a sightseeing website called SightSy, where he was the director of operations. One of the activities listed on SightSy is the “Manhattan Sky Tour: New York Helicopter Flight.”Mr. Hill’s other brother, Iain Hill, wrote a tribute to him on Facebook.“The world lost a legend last night,” he wrote. “Few have brought so many together. It is in that vein I post, to help let those people know … It never mattered the schedule, if there was an experience to be lived, or more important a friend in need, he rose to the occasion.”Ms. Vallejos Blanco arrived in New York from Argentina on Wednesday and was planning to stay for a week, said Mateo Estremé, the consul general of Argentina in New York. Roxana Blanco, Ms. Vallejos Blanco’s aunt, told Pulxo, an Argentine radio station, that her niece’s traveling companion decided she would rather skip the Sunday evening ride.“Carlita liked to take pictures and wanted to take pictures from the helicopter, and her friend wanted to do something else,” Ms. Blanco said. “So they agreed to meet at a certain spot later.”Also on the ride was another young person who had recently moved to the city: Mr. Cadigan, the man who took the video. He studied journalism at Southern Methodist University in Dallas and recently moved to New York to work at Business Insider, a business news website. He graduated from Bishop Lynch High School in Dallas in 2010, according to WFAA, a Dallas television station and ABC affiliate, where his father, Jerry Cadigan, is the production manager.“For all of us who had worked in journalism and knew what it took to get out there and get it done, every one of us thought that Trevor had it,” said Tony Pederson, the chairman of the Division of Journalism at Southern Methodist, who taught Mr. Cadigan in a media ethics course. “Teaching Trevor made all of us pretty optimistic about the future of journalism and news media.”Mario Ruiz, a spokesman for Business Insider, said Mr. Cadigan was an intern at the website until a few weeks ago. “He was a smart, talented, and ambitious young journalist and producer who was well-liked and made a big contribution,” Mr. Ruiz said in an email. “Our hearts go out to his family and friends.”Mr. Cadigan was on the helicopter with his friend from high school, Mr. McDaniel. The two were on the football team together and remained friends after they graduated. Mr. McDaniel was a firefighter with the Dallas Fire-Rescue Department and had been on vacation in New York. He was a fire rescue officer assigned to Fire Station 36 in West Dallas, according to a statement from Dallas Fire-Rescue officials. Mr. McDaniel had been with the department since May 2016.Christopher L. Rebuck, the president of Bishop Lynch, said he saw Mr. McDaniel in November when he came by the high school campus to get transcripts. “He was absolutely so proud that he was in a position to be able to serve his community as a fireman,” Mr. Rebuck said. “I could tell that he had really found his place in terms of vocation and what he was meant to do.”Mr. McDaniel’s father, Allen L. McDaniel, said he was too distraught to talk about his son on Monday morning.“I just can’t talk about it right now,” he said. “He’s a great kid, and so was Trevor, his friend that he was with.”His voice caught, and Mr. McDaniel began to cry.