Deutsche Börse said Thursday that its chief executive would step down amid an insider trading scandal, the latest step in an unprecedented and distracting chapter at one of the world’s biggest stock exchanges.The resignation of Carsten Kengeter marks a sharp turnaround for an executive who only months earlier was poised to head a behemoth business. Deutsche Börse agreed last year to merge with the London Stock Exchange Group, and Mr. Kengeter was to lead the combined company.Instead, the merger was blocked by regulators, and now Mr. Kengeter is expected to depart at the end of the year.German authorities had been investigating the purchase of stock by Mr. Kengeter in late 2015, months before Deutsche Börse’s talks to merge with the London Stock Exchange Group became public. The German company agreed last month to pay about $12.5 million in fines to resolve the inquiry, but a court declined on Monday to approve the agreement.On Thursday, Deutsche Börse said in a news release that Mr. Kengeter had offered his resignation “in order to allow the company to focus its energy back onto clients, business and growth and to avoid further burdens caused by the ongoing investigation.”He will lead the exchange on an interim basis until the end of this year and still has “the supervisory board’s full confidence,” Deutsche Börse said. The exchange operator said that it accepted his resignation with “deep regret.”Mr. Kengeter has consistently denied wrongdoing, and said he would cooperate with the authorities.“This decision was not easy for me since I feel very closely connected to Deutsche Börse and I still have many plans for the company,” Mr. Kengeter said in a statement. “In the light of the public accusations and allegations, I am taking this step to protect Deutsche Börse.”In March 2016, Deutsche Börse and the London Stock Exchange Group agreed to merge in an all-stock deal that they hoped would forge a European heavyweight in a rapidly consolidating industry. The deal would have created by far the largest operator of stock markets in Europe, combining bourses in Britain, Germany and Italy, as well as several of the region’s largest clearinghouses.But this year European regulators blocked the deal, citing concerns that it would create a “de facto monopoly” in the clearing of bonds and fixed-income products.The two exchanges said formal merger talks began in January 2016, after Mr. Kengeter’s share purchases. Prosecutors have said, however, they believe the discussions began as early as the previous summer.Mr. Kengeter told shareholders in May, “Insider trading goes against everything I stand for.” Deutsche Börse has stood behind Mr. Kengeter throughout the investigation.The exchange operator said last month, when it agreed to pay fines to resolve the German investigation, that it did not “share the public prosecutor’s view concerning the accusations raised,” but “the decision to nevertheless accept the fines was made for the purpose of protecting the overriding interests of the company.”It is rare to see a top exchange executive forced out by concerns about their conduct.Richard A. Grasso, the former New York Stock Exchange chief executive, resigned in 2003 during a public outcry over his pay package. He was ultimately allowed to keep the $139.5 million he was paid after a long and contentious legal battle with the New York Attorney General’s office.Despite the unusual nature of Mr. Kengeter’s departure, it does not mark his first brush with controversy.Before joining Deutsche Börse, he previously led investment banking at UBS for several years before leaving the bank in 2013.During Mr. Kengeter’s time running UBS’s investment bank, Kweku M. Adoboli, a trader in its London office, was accused of unauthorized trading that led to a $2.3 billion loss for the bank. Mr. Adoboli was found guilty of fraud in 2012 and sentenced to seven years in prison. The ensuing scandal led to the resignation of Oswald J. Grübel as UBS’s chief executive, though Mr. Kengeter was not implicated.UBS also became embroiled in an industrywide investigation into the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, during Mr. Kengeter’s time as head of the investment bank.UBS ultimately paid $1.5 billion in fines as part of a settlement with British and American authorities over its role in the rigging of global benchmark interest rates. Tom Hayes, a former UBS and Citigroup trader, was convicted of criminal charges related to the manipulation of Libor in 2015.Mr. Hayes told British authorities in interviews after his arrest that Mr. Kengeter had been present at a meeting where manipulation of the rate was discussed, according to a report that summarized those interviews and was entered into evidence during his trial. Mr. Kengeter, however, was never accused of wrongdoing in relation to Libor.The departure of Mr. Kengeter will mark the latest leadership shake up among the world’s largest exchanges.Xavier Rolet, the chief executive of the London Stock Exchange Group, has said he would retire next year. (He originally planned to retire following the completion of the merger with Deutsche Börse.) Adena T. Friedman took the top job at Nasdaq in January, replacing Robert Greifeld as chief executive, and Phupinder Gill retired as chief executive of the CME Group last year after nearly two decades at the company.