Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter. To receive it in your inbox, sign up here.______When we pulled into the rural river town of Lismore on Wednesday morning, I found myself doing double-takes as I looked at all the open shops and bustling foot traffic.Was this really the same place that had been devastated by flooding a few months ago after Cyclone Debbie?Two readers of this newsletter, Ellen Wilson and Nicholas Fonseca, had suggested I visit after I’d asked for places to check out while road-tripping with my family through New South Wales and Queensland. Both Ellen and Nicholas mentioned the flood damage, and I wanted to see for myself how a town like Lismore managed.First, I searched for images and video from the flooding just to confirm I was in the right place, and sure enough, there was the central business district, under muddy water. Where I stood, near a truck selling fresh meat pies, had been swimming in sediment just 13 weeks earlier.Crossing a bridge over the now-calm river that had overflowed, I wandered into a mental health agency figuring someone there could give me a sense of the town’s recovery.There a half dozen people (the ones at the top of this newsletter) gathered around a table of food. They told me I’d stumbled upon the first meeting of the Flood Survivors Social Support Group, a new informal drop-in session for people in need of assistance because of the disaster.“There’s formal support but not very much informal help,” said Sarah McCormick, 41, one of the group’s founders. “There’s still people who — even after the cut off dates for aid — are only now getting their heads around things.”That morning, for example, a man named Walter had come in asking about the free mattress program set up by the local Catholic Diocese. About 1,500 mattresses had already been given out but Walter still didn’t have a place to sleep, and needed one. Ms. McCormick said she’d be calling on his behalf to work it out.Alongside the mattresses, people donated clothing and money flowed in as well. A team of chaplains are still doing regular house calls to check on families’ spiritual and emotional needs. There was a program to give people new refrigerators and other appliances.Ms. McCormick and the other volunteers made clear that there was also a fair amount of frustration. One insurer seemed to have included a clause in its contracts that allowed it to avoid paying certain claims. Some residential property owners seemed to have received more government help than others, which led to some grumbling. The group also estimated that 15 to 20 percent of businesses were still closed, including some banks.Still, walking through town, eyeing the marks on utility poles showing the high-water mark from previous floods, it was hard not to notice the strength of the recovery. I’ve covered hurricanes in Florida and earthquakes in Haiti and Mexico. Rarely have I seen such a full revival so quickly.At least in Lismore, Australia’s overall wealth and community can-do spirit seem to have created a dynamic of rapid resilience. In the United States and other countries I have worked in, it’s easier to fall from the middle class to destitution, especially in rural areas that struggle with some of the same agricultural churn as Lismore — where timber has died, dairy is dying and the macadamia industry can only do so much.Even the support group seemed torn between advocating for improvement, and appreciating the capacity to rebuild.“You do get positives along with the negatives,” said Doug Ribley, 72, a lay minister with the Anglican Church here. “When a store reopens, it gets out on social media to go out and support them, and we do. There’s just a lot more interaction in the community.”Is what I saw in Lismore typical?Share your stories of small-town Australia at nytaustralia@nytimes.com or in our NYT Australia Facebook group.Now here’s my weekly roundup of New York Times stories, and a recommendation from my recent travels — also drawn from readers, like you!______On Tuesday, North Korea appeared to cross a new threshold, testing a weapon that it described as an intercontinental ballistic missile. Our Tokyo Bureau Chief, Motoko Rich, takes a look at the risks of a surgical strike leading to wider war. Our Beijing Bureau Chief, Jane Perlez, shares the view from China, where Xi Jinping appears to be the Chairman of Everything, except when it comes to North Korea.______When I had dinner at the home of Lisa Pryor, one of our regular Opinion contributors in Australia, my children and her children were remarkably quiet and well-behaved throughout the entire meal. Only later did I realize why: They were watching television. Here’s her argument for why we can all just relax about screen time.______Another New York Times investigation into the culture of Silicon Valley — this time focused on sexual assault and harassment. And it’s already having a global impact. This week, the Victoria State government’s start-up investment body LaunchVic threatened to pull its support from 500 Startups’ local program after several women told our reporters that the company’s co-founder Dave McClure had made inappropriate sexual advances toward women in professional situations. He resigned on Monday.Following reader advice, we visited Federal Doma Cafe during our stay in Byron Bay, and it did not disappoint.Nestled into a very small town up in the hills about 20 minutes drive out of Byron, it’s an oasis of fine Japanese cooking founded by two Japanese entrepreneurs who just opened a new outpost in Beijing. The sushi specials, the teriyaki — everything really — was fantastic, at least as good as what could be found in Sydney or Melbourne.“It used to be popular just for local people,” Kaz Saito, one of the managers, told me. “Now they are telling others.”We’re heading to Brisbane and Noosa next. Suggestions welcome, at nytaustralia@nytimes.com. And one more thing: here’s what to watch on Netflix Australia this month.Onward.