Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherAs a candidate, Donald J. Trump was very critical of the size of the national debt. As president, he has proposed a budget that would add $7 trillion to the federal deficit over the next decade.Republicans are saying nothing.On today’s episode:• Jim Tankersley, who covers taxes and the economy for The New York Times.Background reading:• Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said that Washington must grapple with the mounting federal debt, just as lawmakers are embarking on a significant spending spree.• Three pillars of the Republican Party’s economic platform over the last decade were less government spending, a smaller deficit and policy certainty. Not anymore.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”