MIAMI — Starting in the fall of 2017, David Hogg, a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School senior, applied to a half-dozen universities that offered programs in journalism, political science or photography. His plan was to become a journalist or filmmaker.Less than six months later, the Parkland, Fla., teenager had tragically become one of the best-known high school students in America. After 17 of his fellow students and teachers were killed in a Feb. 14 mass shooting, Mr. Hogg became a leader in the grass-roots, student-led gun control movement that spread around the country, pushing a campaign to hold lawmakers accountable for their votes on gun legislation.The day after the shooting, Mr. Hogg got his first college application letter back: a rejection from California State University at Long Beach. At least two more denials followed, along with acceptances to three universities. Now Mr. Hogg, whose name and face are surely recognizable to college admissions officers everywhere, has no idea where or if he is going to college in the fall.“Sure, it’s disappointing and annoying, but not surprising. There are a lot of amazing people who do not get into or go to college,” said Mr. Hogg, who carries a 4.2 GPA and scored 1270 on the SAT. “I wanted to make a difference through storytelling and political activism, but I am already doing that now.”The Parkland students are a case study in civic engagement. They are among the leaders of the #NeverAgain movement, collectively delivering fiery speeches that demand change, promoting their message on social media and organizing the March for Our Lives rally held last weekend, which drew participants from across the globe.Much of their leadership and community work, driven by the loss of classmates and friends, might not have been considered in the college admission process. Now, some of the most vocal Parkland seniors — whether accepted or denied to their top college choices — are rethinking their college plans, hoping in one way or another to capitalize on the momentum.Samantha Fuentes, who was wounded by a bullet and shrapnel in the Parkland attack, is contemplating sitting out the first semester or even the full year to continue the campaign to promote more rigorous gun safety laws.“If the movement is solidifying even more and hitting the nation from all directions and they need soldiers, I will put college off,” said Ms. Fuentes, 18, who is staying close to home with tentative plans to attend Broward Community College, then Florida Atlantic University.As a shooting victim and survivor, she is willing to speak at universities or to politicians about gun legislation.“The truth is, us kids, we just want to be the voice for the people we lost, or for people who don’t think they have a voice,” said Ms. Fuentes, who would like to eventually become an elementary schoolteacher. “I am prioritizing this over college right now, I am prioritizing people’s lives over my education.”University admissions offices declined to discuss individual applications, but many noted that civic engagement is a plus in considering whether to admit an applicant. In fact, some colleges publicly assured high school applicants in advance of last weekend’s March for Our Lives rallies that their participation in peaceful protests would not harm admission chances.Harvard, for example, issued a statement: “The mission of Harvard College is to provide a deeply transformative liberal arts and sciences education that will prepare our students for a life of citizenship and leadership. Fundamental to our mission is our belief that students have the right to protest peacefully about issues of concern to them. Students who are disciplined for engaging responsibly in exercising their rights and freedoms would not have their chances of admission compromised or their admissions revoked.”While on spring break this week, Mr. Hogg said he was leaning toward taking a gap year to focus on the midterm elections, hoping to rally young voters and target politicians supported by the National Rifle Association.“We are trying to get these laws changed to drive down the number of people who die by gun violence,” he said. “I can figure out everything else later.”Mr. Hogg said he does not believe his outspokenness had anything to do with the college denials, but admits it has been frustrating. In a late-night, March 16 message on Twitter — liked by at least 64,000 and retweeted nearly 6,600 times — Mr. Hogg told his followers, “Just got rejected from another college but that’s ok we’re already changing the world. Goodnight everyone.”He added that he was comforting himself by eating chocolate muffins. The response was mixed, with some mocking his rejection, some encouraging him to take a gap year and others touting him as precisely the type of student colleges should recruit.After a Twitter follower suggested he apply to a California university, Mr. Hogg confirmed that one of the schools that denied his application was University of California, San Diego. The University of California, Los Angeles, also turned him down, he said later.On Wednesday morning, Laura Ingraham, the conservative radio host, taunted Mr. Hogg by linking to a story on Twitter about his college application denials. “David Hogg Rejected by Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it,” she said. Mr. Hogg pushed back, calling for sponsors to boycott Ms. Ingraham’s show. He later posted a list of advertisers to his nearly 600,000 followers, and Ms. Ingraham on Thursday apologized on Twitter.“Any student should be proud of a 4.2 GPA,” including Mr. Hogg, she wrote. “On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland.”Ryan Deitsch, a Parkland classmate who wants to follow his father and grandfather into filmmaking and photography, said his applications were rejected from several schools, including U.C.L.A. and Northwestern University. He was admitted to Florida State University, Savannah College of Art and Design and Columbia College Chicago.“I don’t know what the next couple of months will look like. Right now, we are ramped up and the world is watching so now is the time for us to act,” Mr. Deitsch, 18, said just hours after a phone interview with Columbia College Hollywood, which is not affiliated with the Chicago school. “To do that, some of us might have to change our original plans. Right now, I am thinking of taking at least a semester off to devote to the movement.”Though the shooting and organized response thrust Parkland students into the spotlight, Mr. Deitsch, a student journalist who filmed students in the aftermath of the shooting, does not believe it entitles him to special college privileges.“It’s disappointing to not get into certain schools, but I try to keep things in perspective,” he said. “I am not angry. If I didn’t qualify then I shouldn’t just be admitted because I spoke the loudest. There is much more important work for us to do.”