Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe aftermath of a mass shooting has become a familiar cycle in the United States: One side demands change, the other works to block it.But this time, it is the students who survived the assault who are pressing lawmakers to impose new restrictions on guns.On today’s episode:• Michael D. Shear, a White House correspondent for The New York Times.Background reading:• The father of a student killed last week at a Florida high school pressed President Trump to act, asking, “How many children have to get shot?” It was one of many dramatic exchanges on Wednesday about gun violence.• The students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School lobbied state lawmakers to strengthen gun control, and met resistance.• Senator Marco Rubio and a spokeswoman for the National Rifle Association were repeatedly heckled during a nationally televised forum after they refused to back new gun control measures.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.From your mobile device:You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)From a desktop or laptop:Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”On Google Home:You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”