Tennis officials like to view their sport as a meritocracy. Great talent, it seems, can emerge from anywhere and then rise through head-to-head competition.But the truth is that inequalities and special privileges abound, and as a new season begins in earnest with the 2018 Australian Open, the timing seems right to launch this year’s wish list by lobbying for an end to one of the game’s most unnecessary perks.Reciprocal wild cards between Grand Slam nations might be a present-day symbol of the solidarity among the most prestigious tournaments, but they are also an outdated symbol of elitism in a sport where the barriers to entry are already high. And yet the practice continues with the Australian Open, French Open and United States Open exchanging singles wild cards (Wimbledon, to its credit, has not joined).A place in the main draw at a major is increasingly lucrative. First-round losers at this year’s Australian Open will earn $60,000 Australian dollars (about $47,000 United States dollars), more than double the 2013 figure.Receiving one of the eight wild cards is a financial windfall, and they do increase the opportunities for French, American and Australian players at the expense of those from less privileged tennis nations.I would argue that eight wild cards — more than 6 percent of the draw — is too many unless they are genuinely going to be used to enhance a major’s global appeal or serve some higher purpose. That is rarely how they are deployed.If the Australians want to use their wild cards on Australians, that seems logical, even if the record shows that most home-nation wild cards are quickly eliminated. But extending that advantage to other Grand Slam nations is nothing more than mutual back scratching.Better use? Follow the Wimbledon example and be more open to bestowing wild cards on rising players, irrespective of their nationalities, who have proven in recent months that they have great potential. Or on stars, irrespective of their nationalities, who have dropped in the rankings.Another option: organize a wild-card playoff for the top-ranked players from underrepresented tennis nations or regions and grant the winner a spot in the main draw. The Australian Open already does a version of this, offering a men’s and women’s singles wild card to the winners of its Asia-Pacific playoff.That seems the right message considering that Australia is part of the Asia-Pacific region and drawing an increasing number of spectators from that zone. What seems considerably less fair is to hand over free passes to French and American players simply because they come from far-away nations who can return the favor.Other tennis wishes for 2018:Real, unbiased scientific research on the injury issue. It has become the dominant theme in the game and not just because the Big Five are all in their 30s. Younger men’s and women’s talents have suffered, too: Borna Coric, Milos Raonic, Belinda Bencic, Sloane Stephens and others. Do strings, balls, racket frames, court surfaces or the speed of the game need to be modified? Does the schedule need to be further shortened or restructured? Let’s let a task force stocked with experts from medicine to physics to coaching find out.A ban on opponents wearing the same outfit. Sponsors might like the double opportunity to showcase their wares, but tennis has enough television challenges without viewers having to struggle to figure out who is who in a match.More gender equity in the scheduling at Wimbledon. Men’s and women’s singles players should get equal opportunities to play on Centre Court and Court One, even on overstuffed Manic Monday with its full docket of fourth-round matches.True independence for the sport’s antidoping and anticorruption units. Although they are likely to be combined in the near future, tennis can no longer afford the appearance of a conflict of interest. Track and field, by force of all its scandals, has been ahead of the game on this. Even if the funding for a combined organization needs to come from tennis’s governing bodies, they need to have no leverage over its operation, and it should not share a headquarters with any of those governing bodies.An intergenerational Grand Slam men’s final. As diverting as the Federer-Nadal revival was in 2017, the Big Five have monopolized the final Sunday spotlight long enough. Time for one of the youngsters to join in even if Grigor Dimitrov, at 26, is more veteran than youngster.A second Grand Slam singles title for Juan Martin del Potro, who won his first in 2009 at the United States Open before a series of wrist injuries nearly knocked him out of the game for good. He has paid his dues and then some.A first Grand Slam singles title for Caroline Wozniacki She was long No. 1 without winning a big one and she has paid plenty of dues.More subtlety, less power. More volleys, fewer groundstrokes. More slice, less topspin. More smiles, fewer shrieks. More independent problem solving, less on-court coaching. More emphasis on talent, less emphasis on looks.